Welcome to Complete Intro to SQL.
I am Brian Holt.
Or Complete Intro to SQL,
I know I'm gonna get people upset
about how to pronounce that.
I will probably say both cuz I have
no consistency in my life, but
that's between me and my therapist.
Anyway, let's click on
the Introduction here.
Well, first of all, actually I want you
to go to sql.holt, H-O-L-T, .courses.
That'll take you to this website here.
This is literally all of my course notes,
this is everything I'm gonna
be teaching you today.
I have two computers here because I teach
from this one and I read from this one.
I have my notes up here.
So if you fall behind or
if you wanna review something, or
if you wanna share this with your friend,
this site is open and free forever.
Okay, so now we've done that,
we're gonna click on the Introduction.
Just to show you how this kind of works,
up here in the top right,
you see WELCOME, INTRODUCTION.
This is the name of the section,
this is the name of the lesson.
So that if you jump ahead or if you fall
behind, or if you just wanna know where I
am, you can just see that Welcome
Introduction, Welcome Introduction.
It matches up so you can kind of use
a breadcrumb to find where you are.
And with that, let's get into
the introduction to this course.
My name is Brian Holt.
I've taught too many courses here,
I literally can't count how
many times I've been here.
And I wanna teach you about SQL today.
So SQL, it's a language.
It's not necessarily programming language
though you'll see here in a little bit,
you can kind of turn it into
a programming language, but
there's an incredible
amount of depth here.
And I think that makes it seem
a little unapproachable to people.
It seems like they have to learn this
entire new programming language, but
in reality you can get, I would say,
almost all the benefit of SQL with
a very small subset of knowledge.
Don't get me wrong, there's people
that have decades of experience here,
they can do wild things with it.
We're not going there today,
I'm trying to get you something really,
really practical.
And I guess that's kind of one of
the first points I wanna hammer on,
this is a course for developers.
I'm not gonna teach you how to replicate,
I'm not gonna teach you how to deploy,
I'm not gonna teach you how to
manage instances of Postgres.
You wanna learn that from a DBA or from
an Ops person, and I am neither of those.
What I am going to teach you today is if
you're a developer and you wanna write
queries to an SQL database, or
you need to create some tables or
need to model some data, that's stuff
that we're gonna talk about today.
So yeah, here's kind of some examples
of things you're gonna learn,
how to set up databases and tables,
what's gonna go into your tables?
We're gonna run it just
the smallest bit of Node.js today,
cuz I actually wanted to get your
hands on code, querying a database.
If you don't know Node, that's fine,
you can just kind of follow
along those kinds of things.
So who is this course for?
It's for you, hopefully.
The things that I will suggest that you
know before you take this course it'll be
really helpful.
Just Internet fundamentals,
there's a great course from Jen from
Frontend Masters that goes over
how the Internet works and
a bunch of stuff like that,
it's very good to have that done first.
Some basic coding abilities
will be really helpful.
If this is your very first coding
class ever, that's gonna be hard.
It's probably still possible,
to be honest with you, but it'll be hard.
And then a little Node.js
would go a long ways.
And I linked three different
FrontendMasters courses here for
you to kind of brush up on those, yeah.
>> What about Jen's full-stack?
>> What about Jen's full-stack course?
I mean, it's a great course.
I don't think you need to take it
before you take this course, you could.
I guess Jen does talk a little
bit about Node.js, right?
>> He talks about everything, like how
the Internet works, basics of sysadmin,
all those kinds of things.
>> Yeah,
if you wanna get more of that direction,
certainly that course
would be really helpful.
So your setup, I have tested this
both on Mac OS and on Windows 10.
And if it works on Windows 10,
it should work on Windows 11.
And if you're doing this on Linux, you
probably already know what everything I'm
about to tell you so
you can just ignore me at this point.
I'm kidding, you can follow the Mac OS
instructions and that'll work for
Linux just fine.
You won't need a particularly
powerful computer for this.
I would recommend about 8 gigs of RAM.
That's probably the thing that's
gonna get you the most, but
you could probably do this on 4.
2 would be hard, but
You will need to use Docker,
you don't have to know Docker.
If you would like to know Docker,
I teach a whole course on Docker for
Frontend Masters, but I will give
you all the Docker instructions.
This is not a Docker course.
You do not have to use Visual Studio Code,
though I will be using it, and
I will show you a couple of tricks for
it just throughout the course,
I used to work on it, so I like it.
People always ask me about my setup, so I
put it in here, but the font is MonaLisa.
I just use the default Dark+ theme.
I use iTerm2, and
then this vscode-icons extension.
So if you wanna come back later and
you're wondering how I set things up,
it's all linked there.
Where to file issues,
there is a repo here.
So if you open this,
this is the course website here.
So here you can open issues,
you can open pull request.
I'm going to ask you,
if you have questions, don't message me.
Put them on the repo because then later
if someone else has the same question,
they can Google it and
find it in the repo.
And pull requests are very welcome,
particularly cuz I always have a ton of
spelling and
grammar mistakes on my courses.
So there's another course on Frontend
Masters which I'll pull up really quick
here, that I taught previously
called Complete Intro to Databases.
This is all still current and useful.
This covers four different
types of databases.
This is more comparative of, I'm
thinking about this problem that I have,
how should I model the data, right?
And so it goes over an SQL
database which is Postgres, right?
So this section here is going to largely
overlap with what I'm gonna teach today,
but we're gonna go into
much more depth today.
But this class also goes
into graph databases,
Key-Value Stores,
as well as NoSQL databases.
Specifically it goes into MongoDB,
Postgres.
This is Neo4j, and then this is Redis.
So this much more like a higher
level comparing use NoSQL for
these kinds of problems, use Postgres for
these kinds of problems,
use Redis for
these kinds of problems, right?
Whereas this class is specifically
teaching you in-depth SQL so
that you can work with an SQL.
You've already decided
to use an SQL database.
This one is going to help you choose
that you wanna use an SQL database,
that makes any sense.
My name is Brian, and I work at Stripe.
Specifically at Stripe I am
the product owner of the Stripe SDKs,
the Stripe VS Code extension,
the Stripe React Native,
Eexperience, the CLI,
a bunch of developer tools, right?
So that's kind of the theme
of my entire career.
For the most part,
I've worked on developer tools.
Previous to being at Stripe I worked
on VS Code and I worked on Azure.
I was the owner of JavaScript on Azure.
And then before that I was a Node.js and
JavaScript frontend developer for
a decade.
I worked at LinkedIn, Netflix, Reddit.
I started teaching at Frontend Masters
when I worked at Reddit.
So that's been coming up
on a decade of me teaching
in Frontend Masters which
is crazy to think about.
I've written a lot of code and
queries over the years.
I started coding probably
around when I was ten.
My brother made me write code before
he'd let me play video games, so
I'm both still upset at my brother and
also thankful cuz here I am.
But I'm gonna tell you right now that
you can learn these skills at any
point, right?
You can be 16 starting this, you can
be 5 when you can be starting this.
I don't know five,
I don't know if I'm gonna teach my
five-year-old how to write queries in SQL.
I don't know, maybe if he's bad.
When I really started writing a lot
of serious SQL was my internship,
where I had to query
these really archaic and
weird databases using SQL,
which taught me a lot.
And then over the years at Reddit,
I wrote a lot of queries.
At Netflix,
it's kind of been a theme throughout all
my career to use SQL in
various incantations.
I didn't start using Postgres
until I worked at Reddit.
Before that was mostly MySQL, but you'll
see that while most of the things that
we're gonna talk about today
are very specific to Postgres.
A lot of these skills are generally
applicable across all in any SQL
databases, and
we'll talk about that in a little bit.
I live in Seattle.
I like to travel,
hang out with my wife and my new kid.
And yeah, that's me.
Feel free to catch up with me on
social media, all my links are there.
And the last thing I always ask people
is if you can give this repo a star,
it helps people find it, which is cool.
It also pads my ego which
needs help sometimes.
>> What's the secret of mastering
all these skills, like databases and
frontend development?
>> It's a good question.
Kind of the theme of my career's I've
worked all over the stack, right?
I went all the way from working on
pure frontend application sometimes.
Did that at Reddit and Netflix,
all the way to working on lower levels
of the stack and doing backend stuff.
I did that at LinkedIn and also Netflix,
all the way down to I worked on
Cloud Infrastructure at Microsoft, right?
And now I do product management stuff and
business stuff at Stripe.
And the thing that's been
critical to my success in me
learning all these various different
tools is that, I learn by teaching,
and that's just kind of my learning style.
When you're teaching, you are forced to
kind of reduce your knowledge down to
a common vocabulary between the person
that you're trying to communicate with.
Which means that you have
to break down these things
that you kind of hand
wave over in your brain.
And you have to kinda open the box and see
what's inside of it and understand what
are those primitives because you know
people are gonna ask you questions.
And you have to kind of provide for
those questions in advance.
So in other words, a lot of it's
from experience, and secondly,
I've taught a lot of people, both
teaching workshops to my coworkers and
doing in Frontend Masters and
doing conference workshops.
Doing all that teaching really helps
solidify these kind of basic primitives
in my brain, that I used to build backup
into more complicated higher level things.
>> Should I take the Intro to Databases
course before this or-
>> No, so
the complete Intro to Databases,
like I said it's kind of a different
approach to a similar thing where it kind
of teaches you how to model problems, and
what kind of database to use for
each one of them.
This one has no dependency on
complete intro to databases.
This is its own thing, so
you do not have to take that one before.
In fact, if you take this one before for
the most part,
you could probably skip the SQL
section in the other one.
This one is gonna have more depth than
the complete Intro to Databases as well.
Yeah, Dustin.
>> Do I have to download Docker for
this course?
>> You must download Docker in this
course, it's literally the next section.